What is java?
 Ans: i)Java is a class based object oriented programming language and it was developed by james Gosling.
      ii)The rules and syntax of java is based on C,C++.
      iii)It is also referred to as (WORA)-write once and run anywhere.

What is Oops?
 Ans:  It is object oriented programming language.The main advantages of oops is that we can reuse the code.
 
1.what are the principles of oops ?(or) what are the major pillars of oops?
  Ans:i)Abstraction (Ex: Mobile,ATM machine,Switch board).
      ii)Encapsulation (Ex: Map,human,ppt,website,School bags),you can achieve encapsulation by private fields and by getter setter methods.
      iii)Inheritance  (Ex: parent-child relationship).
      iv)Polymorphism (Ex:Travelling(through either bus or car or train or plane,Actor can either play as hero or villian or comedian etc. ).
      
2.why java is platform independent?
  Ans: It is a platform independent because java programs are compiled in to bytecode which is platform 
    independent.so java is a platform independent.
    
3.why main method is static in java?
  Ans: java main method() is always static because static method can be called without the creation of 
    the object or before creating the object.In any java program,main() is the starting point where
    compiler starts program execution.so the compiler needs to call the main() method.
    
4.Instead of public static void mainI(),can i write static public void main()?
   Ans: yes.because both static and public are modifiers.though we change it,there is no error
       occurs.
       
5.can we change the variable of command line arguments variable?
   Ans: yes.we can change the command line arguments variable.
   
6.can i change the return type of main method?(or)can i write int instead of void in main method?
   Ans: No.we can't able to change.If you change the signature of main method,the jvm will consider
      it as user defined method and throws a error as "main method not found in class".
      
7.What is System.out.println()?   
   Ans: System=>Class present in java.lang package
        out=>It is a static reference of printStream class.
        println=>It is a method in PrintStreamClass.
        
8.can we make a class as private or protected?
   Ans: No.we can make it as public or default.but inner class can be private or protected.

9.Is java pure oops?
   Ans: No,java is not a pure Oops.java is based on objects but it has primitive datatypes.because of this datatypes java is not purely object oriented.    
   
10.What is variable?
  Ans: It is defined  as data container to store the data values and it is a memory location of a data.
  
11.What are datatypes?
  Ans: It is a classification of what type of data stored in a variable.Ex: int a; here "int" is a integer type which means you can store only integer value 
       in a variabe "a".
12.what are the types of variable?
   Ans: three types of variable
         i)Instance or Global variable
         ii)Static Variable
         iii)Local Variable.
13.How to display a number upto two decimal float a=123.786912?
  Ans: using stringFormat() function. String.format("%.2f",a);
  
14.What is switch Statement?
   Ans: It is a multiple branching statement and it is also called as Menu driven program.
15.Which one is entry controlled and exit controlled loop?
   Ans: while->Entry controlled loop.(The loop in which the test condition is checked at the beginning of the loop).
        do-while->Exit controlled loop.(The statement inside the body of the loop is executed first and then the condition is checked).
16.what is class?
   Ans: Class is a blue print for the object.before creating any object we first need to define the class.
        It contains all the related information. 
17.What is object?
  Ans: It is a instance of a class.It is any entity that has state and behaviour.
18.What are the advantages of creating a method?
  Ans: ->reusability.
       ->better separation of code.
       ->easy to maintain.  
19.What are the types of memory?
   Ans: i)Stack->If you are declaring a variable,those variable will be stored inside stack method and when you are creating an object ,
          only the object reference will be stored inside the stack memory.
        ii)heap->If you are declaring a object,those object will be stored inside the heap memory.
20.What is a class loader?
    Ans: Class loader is used to load a  (.class file) byte code . 
21.What is method overloading?
   Ans: It is a type of compile time polymorphism. It has same method with difference in parameter.
   
22.What is the difference between super() and super keyword?
    Ans:  Super() :
    
              i)super() constructor used to call the base class constructor.
              ii)It must be called  at the  first line of constructor.
          super :
          
             i)super keyword is used to call data members and methods of the base class or super class
             ii)We can call super keyword anywhere on the method.There is no certain rules.
                  
23.Why java doesn't support multiple Inheritance?   
    Ans: Due of ambiquity java doesn't support multiple inheritance in classes .In java, multiple inheritance can be achieved through
         Interfaces.
24.What is method overriding?
  Ans: It is process of run time polymorphism.Method has same name as well as same parameter in parent class  as well as in child
       class.                  
       
 24.What is constructor?
    Ans: i)It is used to initialize data members.
         ii)It has same name as class name.
         iii)It doesn't return anything.
         iv)It can be called at the creation of the object.
 25.What is difference between method and constructor?
      Ans: constructor
               i)A constructor can be called when object created.
               ii)A constructor name must be same as the class name.
               iii)It doesn't have any return type.
            method:
                i)A method  is invoked by method call.
                ii)A method name must be anything.
                iii)It  must have return type.  
                
 26.What is this() constructor?
    Ans: It is used to call one constructor from another in the same class.
    
 27.What is package?
   Ans: Package is a collection of classes,interfaces and subpackages.Package statement must be created in the first line of a
        program.   
                         
 28.What is sub packages?
    Ans: the package inside the another package is known as sub package. 
    
 29.Can we import same package twice?
   Ans: yes we can.
 30.What is default package of java?
    Ans: java.lang package is the default package of java.
    
 31.Can we write package statement after import statement?
    Ans: We cannot define package after the import statement otherwise the compiler will throws an error.
    
 32.What is Inheritance and explain with its type?
    Ans: Inheritance is the process of accessing a base class properties in a child class.
            Types ->There are three types of Inheritance  available in java.
                        i)Single Inheritance
                        ii)multilevel Inheritance
                        iii)Hierarchical Inheritance
                        
 33.What is final keyword?
   Ans: i)It you want to define constant value to a variable and cannot be changed at anytime.At this instance you can use final
        variable.It can be used with variables,methods and classes.
        ii)final method cannot be overridden.
        iii)final class cannot be inherited.
        
 34.What is static keyword?
   Ans: static keyword can be used with variables,method and a block
         i)static variable  is used to refer common property  of all objects.
         ii)static method belongs to class and does not belongs to object.It can be invoked before the creation of the object.
         iii)static block is used to initialize a static variable.It is executed before main method at the time of class loading.
   
 35.can we execute a program without main method?
    Ans: one of the way to execute without main method is static block but upto prior version of 7 yes      
  
 36.Which memory area does variable stored?
   Ans:       variables are stored in stack memory.
        
 37.In which memory area the object will be stored?
    Ans: Object will be stored in heap memory.
    
 38.Where the static variable is stored?
   Ans:   static variables are stored in class area.
   
 39.Can we use this and super keyword in static context?
   Ans: No there is no use of this and super Keyword .because static doen't depends on objects.
   
 40.Can we reuse static method?If yes how?
     Ans: yes we can reuse static method.By calling the static method many times in the same class.
 
 41.Can we overload static method()?
    Ans: yes,we can overload the static method.by showing difference in parameter.
    
 42.Can we override static method?
   Ans: no.you can't override static method,because there is a need of object in overriding by using super and this 
        keyword,but static does not belongs to object.
        
43.Difference between super keyword and super()?
        super:
          i) It is used to access base class data members and methods.
          ii) It can be called anywhere inside the methods.There is no certain rules for that.
        super():
           i)It is used to access base class constructor.
           ii)It can be called at the first line of the child class constructor.
           
 44.What is break and continue Statement?
   Ans: break->This keyword is used to stop or terminate the loop.
        continue->This keyword is used to skip the current iteration and continue with the next iteration.          
           
           
                                                       String
                                                       
1.What is the difference between String and StringBuffer?
  Ans:  String:
            i)String class is immutable(values cannot change after initialization).
            ii)It is slow
            iii)It consumes more memory.
            iV)String objects are stored in string constant pool.
         String buffer :
             i)String buffer is mutable 
             ii)It is fast. 
             iii)It consumes less memory.
             iv)It's objects are stored in heap memory. 
             
2.What is the difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
  Ans: StringBuffer:
            i)It is synchronized.
            ii)It is less efficient than string builder.
            iii)It is introduced in java 1.0.
       StringBuilder:    
            i)It is non-Synchronized.
            ii)It is more efficient than string buffer.
            iii)It is introduced in java 1.5.
3.How to create a string?
  Ans: Two ways
          i)By string literal:Created by using double quotes Ex:String h="saran".
          ii)By new keyword :created by using the new keyword Ex:String h=new String("Saran");

                       
           
                   Abstraction
                   
 43.What is abstract class?
   Ans: i)Abstract class is a  restricted class that cannot be used to create objects.
        ii)It must be inherited from another classes.
        iii)Abstract class can have constructor,abstract method,non-abstract method as well as combination of both 
    
 44.What is interface?
    Ans: Interface is used to achieve abstraction.It can have only abstract methods,not the method body.It is mainly
          used to achieve abstraction and multiple inheritance in java.
          
 45.What is  difference between abstract class and Interface?
    Ans:   abstract:
               i)Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract method.
               ii)It doesn't support multiple inheritance.
               iii)It can be extended using "extends" keyword.
               iv)An abstract class may contains non final variables.
           interface:
                i)interface can have only abstract method.
                ii)interface supports multiple inheritance.
                iii)It can be implemented using "implements" keyword.
                iv)variables declared in java interface are by default final.    
                 
                                                      Exception
                  
1.What is Exception?
    Ans: Exception is an abnormal condition that disrupts the normal flow of a program.
2. What is the need to handle Exception?
    Ans: It is very important to handle an exception because it controls the normal flow of the program.
    
3.What are the type of Exception?
    Ans: there are three types Exception in java
            i)Errors-> It is  irrrecoverable.Ex: Stackoverflow,memory leakage.
            ii)checked exception->It is a compile time Exception and it can be recoverable.Ex: IoException,filenotfoundException.
            iii)Unchecked Exception->It is a run time exception and it can be recoverable. Ex:ArithmeticException,ClassnotfoundException. 
            
 4.can we insert multiple catch block?
   Ans: yes,we can insert multiple catch block.
   
5.what is the order of multiple catch block?
   Ans: The order of multiple is from most specific to the most general.
    
6.What is the use of finally block?
    Ans: It is used to execute important code though the exception is handled or not.
7.What is final.finally and finalize?
     Ans:     i)final :  this keyword is used to make a value of a variable as constant throughout the entire program.
              ii)finally : It defines a block of code which we use along with try keyword.This block is used to execute important code though the exception
                           is handled or not.
             iii)finalize(): It is used to perform cleaning process such as closing a file,closing a database connection etc before garbage is
                collected.
                
8.In which situation finally will not be executed?
   Ans: There are two situations where finally will not be execute.They are,
            i)If there is an error occurs,finally block will not be executed.
            ii)If System.exit() is called before the finally block,then it will not be executed.
            
9.Which exception should be declared?
    Ans: only checked exception should be declared.
    

10.can we rethrow an exception?
   Ans: yes we can rethrow an exception by throwing inside the catch block 
         Ex:
           try
           {
             //...             
           }      
           catch()
           {
            throw new  Exception("");
            }
            
  11.What is the difference between throw and throws?                      
      Ans: throw
              i)It is used to explicitly throw an exception.
              ii)It is followed by instance(object).
              iii)It is used with in the method.
              iv)you cannot throw multiple exception.
           throws
              i) It is used to declare checked exception.
              ii)It is followed by a class. 
              iii)It is used with the method signature.
             iv)you can declare multiple Exception(Exam : throws IoException,FileNotFoundException) .     
 
 12.what is custom or user defined Exception?
    Ans: creating our own exception is called Custom or user defined Exception.It is used to customize exception according to the user needs.
    
 13.how to create custom Exception?
    
         
         
                                                        
                                                            Object
                
                
1.What is upcasting?
   Ans: parent class reference variable  can refer the child class object known as upcasting.
   
                             Collection
                             
1.What is collection?
   Ans: It is an architecture to store and manipulate group of objects.
   
2.What are the collection over array?
3.What are disadvantages of using array?
  Ans:i)Array has fixed length.once it is initiated ,it can't be changed.
      ii)It allows to store homogeneous type of data.
4.What is the default capacity of array list?
    Ans: the default capacity of an array list is 10.
    
5.What is the use of iterator interface?
   Ans:It is used to iterate the elements in forward direction.
   
6.What is generic?
   Ans: It is a process of specific type in a list. 
    
7.What is difference between Arraylist and Linkedlist?
   Ans: ArrayList:
             i)It internally uses dynamic array(growable array). 
             ii)It is best choice for retrival and manipulation is slow.
        Linkedlist:
             i)It internally uses doubly linked list.  
             ii)It is best choice for manipulation and retrival is slow.
                
8.What is difference between Iterator and listIterator? 
    Ans: Iterator interface is use to iterate the elements in the forward direction only.
         ListIterator interface is use to iterate the elements in both forward and backward directions.
              
9.What is difference between Collections and Collection? 
      Ans:
        Collection is an interface.
        Collections is a class.   
10.What is difference between ArrayList and Vector?                     
   Ans: ArrayList:
         i)It is non-synchronized.
         ii)It is not a legacy class because it is introduced injava 1.2 version.
         iii)It is very fast as it uses multi-threaded environment.
         iv)The formula to increase the capacity=(current capacity*3/2)+1.
      Vector
        i)It is synchronized.
        ii)It is a legacy class because it is introduced in java 1.1 version.
        iii)It is slow compared to array list as it follows single-threaded environment.
        iv)The formula to increase the capacity =current capacity*2;
        
11.Difference between comparable and comparator ?
     Comparable->This interface is used for single sorting
     Comparator->This interface is used for multiple sorting sequence.
        
12.Difference between HashSet and LinkedHashSet?

13.What is Stack?What are the methods present in stack class?        
14.Difference between list and set?
15.What is the difference between priorityQueue and ArrayDeque?
16.What is difference between set and map?
17.what is difference between hashSet and hashMap?
18.what is difference between HashMap and hashTable?
19.how to get synchroized version of arrayList/LinkedList?
    Ans: by using synchronizedList(list)->method present in collection.
    
20.how to get synchroized version of set?
    Ans: by using synchronizedSet(set)->method present in collection Interface
    .
21.What is the use of properties class?
22.What is difference between Array and ArrayList?    

                          FileHandling
1.What are the types of file?                          
2.What is difference between byte oriented and character oriented file?  
3.What is serialization and deserialization?

                         Multithreading
1.What is the Difference between processes and threads?
   processes:
       i)It can be referred as program in execution.
       ii)It has own memory area or address.
       iii)processes are heavy weight.
       iv)It do not depend on each other.
   threads :
       i) It is part of process or it is alight weight sub process.                        
       ii)It shares same memory address.
       iii)threads are light weight.
       iv)They are not independent because they share same memory space.
                                                
2.What is multiprocessing?
  Ans: multiple processes running simultaneously.
  
3.What is multithreading?
  Ans: multiple threads running simultaneously with in a same process.  
  
4.what is thread?
  Ans : It is a light weight sub process and it shares same memory space.\
  
5.What is the difference thread and process?
6.How to create a thread?
7.Thread vs runnable.which is the best approach to create a thread?
8.Explain thread life cycle?
9.can we start a thread twice?
  Ans: no.otherwise it will throw illegal thread exception.
  
10.can we set the priority  of thread?If yes how?  
  Ans: yes ,we can set priority of a thread by called setPriority() and passing arguments from  1 to 10. 

11.What will happen if we pass illegal priority value other than 1 to 10?
  Ans:  It will throw illegal argument exception.
  
12.What is synchronization?
  Ans: It is the process of controlling multiple threads to shared resources
  
13.What are the types of thread? 
  Ans : two 
  
14. can u change user thread into daemon thread?      
      
  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                     Testing
1.What is software testing?
2.what is unit testing?
3. What is test cases?
4.What are the advantages and features of unit testing?
5.What is difference between manual and automated testing?
6.Explain annotation used in Junit?
7.What is assertion?
8.At which class does assertion methods defined?
  
                          Java 8 features
 1.What are the features which got introduced in java 8?
 2.What is lambda expression?             
 3.What is functional interface?
 4.How lambda expression and functional interface are related?
 5.Can u create your own functional interface?
 6.What is method reference in java?
 7.What is Optional?Why and how can u use it?
 8.What is stream?
 9.What is difference between collection and stream?
 10.What is difference between intermediate and terminal operation?
    Ans: Intermediate :i)Intermediate operations are lazy in nature
                       ii)All intermediate operations returns stream as it just transfer from stream in to another  
                       iii) Ex:filter() is an intermediate operation.
                       
          Terminal :->i)It is not lazy and executed as soon as encountered.     
                      ii)Terminal operation don't.
                      iii)Ex: count() is a terminal operation.   
                        
 11.What are the issues of old date/time in ApI?
    Ans:
  12.Why constructor overriding is not impossible?
     Ans: constructor overriding is not impossible,as it belongs to same class.
 13.Is default keyword one of the access modifier?
   Ans:    No,It is not a access modifier..by not mentioning any access modifier,the compiler 
           will take that as default and we don't need to mention it.
14.What is difference between default and protected?
   Ans: default:It is accessible only with in a same package.
        protected: It is also accessible only with in a same package .But if there is a Is-A relationship with different
                   package,protected can be accessible on those situation also.           
             
                    